.\" (C) Copyright 2013 Enrico Rossi <e.rossi@tecnobrain.com>,
.TH RSYNC-BACKUP 1 "2013 Oct 1"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
rsync-backup \- Simple backup system based on rsync
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rsync-backup
SRC DEST NUMBER_OF_BACKUPS
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Rsync-backup
is a program written in bash who aim to be a simple way to do
incremental backups using rsync as backend.
.PP
rsync_backup which do backups into datetime directory like:
.br
rsb_YYMMGGhhmm
.PP
.B IMPORTANT NOTE
.br
--------------
.IP * 4
The backup directory and the at least one backup sub-directory must
exist.
.PP
.IP * 4
The file rsync_backup_exclude.cfg with (eventually) the list of
the file/directory to ignore,
.IR MUST
exists in the backup directory.
.br
Create a void file if nothing has to be excluded,
see rsync man's pages for more info.
.IP * 4
The source directory ending slash (/) is important,
.PP
.RS 4
/my/source ---> <backup directory>/AAMMGGhhmm/source
.br
/my/source/ --> <backup directory>/AAMMGGhhmm
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Backup the directory /home into the /mnt/usbdrive/backup-home,
keep 10 backups.
First initialize the backup directory, then
create a void config file so no file will be excluded and
finally run the backup.
.PP
.RS 4
mkdir -p /mnt/usbdrive/backup-home/rsb_1
.br
touch /mnt/usbdrive/backup-home/rsync_backup_exclude.cfg
.br
rsync_backup /home /mnt/usbdrive/backup-home 10
.RE
.PP
Backup from the host <foo.bar> rsyncd module "users" into the
/mnt/foobar/users directory,
keep 5 backups, exclude all the "Cache" directory.
.PP
.RS 4
mkdir -p /mnt/foobar/users/rsb_1
.br
echo "Cache/" > /mnt/foobar/users/rsync_backup_exclude.cfg
.br
rsync_backup foo.bar::users /mnt/foobar/users 5
.RE
.PP
.B HOWTO test it
.br
-------------
.PP
Create the 1st fake directory,
create the fake config file (void),
backup a real directory (ex. /home/myuser/backupme),
do some changes and
repeat the backup over and over playing with the config file and
the number of backups.
.PP
.RS 4
mkdir -p /tmp/test_backups/rsb_1
.br
touch /tmp/test_backups/rsync_backup_exclude.cfg
.br
rsync_backup /home/myuser/backupme /tmp/test_backups 3
.br
[apply some changes] ...
.br
rsync_backup /home/myuser/backupme /tmp/test_backups 3
.br
[...]
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rsync (1).
