.\" (C) Copyright 2013 Enrico Rossi <e.rossi@tecnobrain.com>,
.TH YARSA 1 "2013 Nov 1"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
yarsa \- Yet Another RSync bAckup.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
yarsa [-h] [-c cycle] [-d date] [-f] [-l] [-r] [-s SRC] [-t] DEST
yarsa [-R] [-c cycle] [-f] [-t]
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Yarsa
is a program written in shell who aim to be a simple way to do
incremental backups using rsync as backend.

.PP
yarsa will create datetime like sub-directory as: rsb_YYMMGGhhmm

.PP
.IP * 4
The backup directory and the at least one backup sub-directory must
exist. You can initialize the backup directory with:

.PP
.RS 4
mkdir -p /full_path_to_backup-dir/rsb_1
.RE

.PP
.IP * 4
The configuration file yarsa.cfg
.IR MUST
exists in the backup directory. You can use this file to override
configuration's variables.
.br
Create a void file if nothing has to be changed.
.IP * 4
The source directory ending slash (/) is important,

.PP
.RS 4
/my/source --> <backup directory>/rsb_AAMMGGhhmm/source
.br
/my/source/ -> <backup directory>/rsb_AAMMGGhhmm
.RE
.SH OPTIONS

.PP
.nf
 \-h                show this help.
 \-c cycle          save cycle versions (default: 7)
 \-d date           link to the date instead of the current time
 \-f                log df space before and after
 \-l                create log files
 \-r                just roll, don't sync
 \-R                assume rsyncd remote call
 \-s src            source directory
 \-t                create backup directory
.fi

.SH EXAMPLES
Backup the directory /home into the /mnt/usbdrive/backup-home,
keep 10 backups.

.PP
.RS 4
.nf
# Initialize the backup directory.
mkdir -p /mnt/usbdrive/backup-home/rsb_1

# Create a void config file.
touch /mnt/usbdrive/backup-home/yarsa.cfg

# Run the backup.
yarsa -c 10 -s /home /mnt/usbdrive/backup-home
.fi
.RE

.PP
Backup from the host <foo.bar> rsyncd module "users" into the
/mnt/foobar/users directory,
keep 5 backups, exclude all the "Cache" sub-directory.

.PP
.RS 4
.nf
# Initialize the backup directory.
mkdir -p /mnt/foobar/users/rsb_1
touch /mnt/foobar/users/yarsa.cfg

# Create the yarsa.exclude file.
echo "Cache/" > /mnt/foobar/users/yarsa.exclude

# Run the backup.
yarsa -c 5 -s foo.bar::users /mnt/foobar/users
.fi
.RE

.SH FILES
.PP
.nf
/usr/share/doc/yarsa/yarsa.cfg.example
/usr/share/doc/yarsa/yarsa.exclude.example
/usr/share/doc/yarsa/yarsa.include.example
.fi

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR rsync (1).

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2013 Enrico Rossi.
.PP
.B Yarsa
is free software; see the GNU General Public Licence version 3 
or later for copying conditions.

.PP
There is
.I no
warranty.
